# Drupal Today

A simple Drupal 9 project that was created in one day to demonstrate how
test-driven development and best practices can be done quickly and efficiently.

It is built from the [`drupal-composer/drupal-project`](https://github.com/drupal-composer/drupal-project) template.

## System Requirements

This project is tested using PHP's built-in webserver and SQLite for speed and simplicity.

The PHP versions that are tested are defined in [GitHub Actions config file ci.yml](./.github/workflows/ci.yml):

- 7.3
- 7.4
- 8.0

## Development & Testing

To develop this project, install `git`, `php` and `composer` command line tools, then:

    git clone git@github.com:jonpugh/drupal-today.git
    composer install
    composer launch

The `composer launch` command is a custom script defined in `composer.json`.

This allows both local development and CI systems to use the exact same commands.

## Functional Requirements

1. As an anonymous user, I can register and sign in to the website.
2. As an anonymous user, I can see a list of the last 5 users who signed in.
2. As an authenticated user, I can see a list of the last 5 users who signed in, including myself.

## Build Plan

Each Epic will be a pull request, and each pull request will be merged once commit status passes.

1. Epic: Create codebase and enable basic CI.
   - Acceptance Criteria: Drupal site installs.
   - Tasks:
     1. Implement CI in GitHub actions using existing config from drupal-composer/drupal-project.
     2. Ensure `composer install`, `drush site-install`, `drush user-login`, and `drush status` all pass.

2. Epic: Implement Behavioural Testing command.
   - Acceptance Criteria: Simple `behat` tests pass.
   - Tasks:
     1. Ensure the drupal behat extension is installed and bin/behat runs successfully.
     2. Write a single simple Drupal test with steps to confirm the home page and user creation works.

3. Epic:  Implement Requirements Tests.
   - Acceptance Criteria: Behavioral tests are defined and indicate failure where new functionality is needed.
   - Tasks:
     1. Write a single Behat feature to define the requirements, including a user story describing the purpose and intent of the feature.
     2. Review the feature steps to confirm with Site Owner the desired functionality.
     3. Ensure the `behat` steps run until the new functionality is expected.
     4. Change the CI script to allow the new test to fail, so that commit status is passing.

4. Epic: Rapid Prototype.
   - Acceptance Criteria: Drupal Site Build fulfills requirements and tests pass.
   - Tasks:
       1. Create a View with a Block display of Users with the correct filters to match the requirements.
       2. Place the Block in a region and ensure anonymous and authenticated users can see it.
       3. Allow anonymous users to register and sign in and view their own profiles and nothing else.
       4. Export the site's config to the git repository.
       5. Ensure the CI system installs the site from the exported code.
   - New Tests:
      1. Test user registration and sign in.
      2. Test block content for anonymous and authenticated users.
      3. Test a new user logging in.
      4. Test the block content for that new user for anonymous and authenticated users.

5. Epic: Code Feature
   - Acceptance Criteria: Functional tests pass on block generated by custom PHP code.
   - Tasks:
     1. Create a custom module with a custom block plugin that uses a query to generate the same list of users.
     2. Ensure the block is placed and the module is enabled.
     3. Identify gaps in testing or possible changes needed to match final functionality.
